Bless
‭ First Circle Blessing - Any Domain‬
‭ You use your action to touch an adjacent creature,‬
‭ blessing it. While you maintain concentration, you‬
‭ grant that creature a bonus die on each of its saving‬
‭ throws.‬
‭ The Bless spell can also be used in a secondary way,‬
‭ to create a blessed token‬
-
‭ a holy symbol, holy water,‬
‭ blessed incense, sacramental bread, or sacredflame.‬
‭ A mundane object of the appropriate element‬
‭ becomes blessed immediately, and loses its blessing‬
‭ when you end concentration. If you perform the‬
‭ blessing on a piece of elemental materia, however,‬
‭ that materia becomes permanently blessed.‬
‭ A blessed token can be used to grant advantage and‬
‭ add one bonus die to a saving throw; incense and‬
‭flame may also create a 5-pace zone of protection‬
‭ where undead and infernal actions have‬
‭ disadvantage. Holy water and sacredflame may also‬
‭ be used to inflict two dice of radiant damage if‬
‭ thrown onto an unholy creature.‬
‭ ‬
‭Calm Emotions‬
‭ First Circle Blessing or Curse - Freedom Domain‬
‭ Blessing - You use your action to attempt to‬
‭ suppress strong emotions in a group of people. Each‬
‭ mortal within 5 paces of you may attempt to deny‬
‭ the effect; each creature can choose to fail this‬
‭ saving throw if they wish. If it fails, you can‬
‭ suppress any effect causing them to be beguiled,‬
‭ hostile, or frightened for as long as you maintain‬
‭ concentration. When used in this way, this spell is‬
‭ considered a Blessing.‬
‭ ‬\n‭C‬urse‭ - Alternatively, you can make a target‬
‭ indifferent about creatures of your choice for as long‬
‭ as you maintain concentration. This indifference‬
‭ ends if the target is attacked or harmed by a spell or‬
‭ if they witness any of their friends being harmed.‬
‭ When the spell ends, the creature regains its normal‬
‭ hostility or affinity, unless the referee rules‬
‭ otherwise. When used in this way, this spell is‬
‭ considered a Curse.‬
‭ Cause Fear‬

‭ First Circle Curse - Death Domain‬
‭ You use your action to instill terror in every living‬
‭ creature within a 5-pace cone. Each target must‬
‭ immediately deny the effect, or drop whatever it is‬
‭ holding and become frightened of you for as long as‬
‭ you maintain concentration.‬
‭ While frightened by this spell, a creature must take‬
‭ the Sprint action and move away from you by the‬
‭ safest available route on each of its turns, unless‬
‭ there is nowhere to move. If the creature ends its‬
‭ turn in a location where it doesn‬’t‭ have line of sight‬
‭ to you, they may attempt to deny the spell.‬
‭ ‬
‭Command‬
‭ First Circle Curse - Fate Domain‬
‭ You use your action to make eye contact with a‬
‭ target within 5 paces that can hear and understand‬
‭ you, and speak a single imperative word such as‬ “jump”
‭ or‬ “quiet”.‭ You roll a ranged attack vs. its‬
‭ Will DV; on a success, it must follow the command‬
‭ during their next turn. You have disadvantage if‬
‭ your command is obviously harmful.‬
‭ If performed as a ritual, you may utter a single‬
‭ imperative sentence to the target. If your attack‬
‭ succeeds, it must obey that command while you‬
‭ maintain concentration.‬
‭ ‬
‭Divine Guidance‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - Truth Domain‬
‭ You use your action to touch an adjacent creature as‬
‭ you recite a brief prayer and choose a Skill. While‬
‭ you maintain concentration, you grant that creature‬
‭ a bonus die on each of its proficiency checks.‬
‭ ‬
‭Heal Minor Wounds‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - Life Domain‬
‭ You use your reaction to touch a creature, healing‬
‭ the target for a number of hit points equal to this‬
‭ spell’‬s‭ power .‬

‭ Heroism‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - War Domain‬
‭ As your action, you may touch a willing creature‬
‭ and imbue them with bravery. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, that creature is immune to being‬
‭ frightened, and adds a bonus die to each of its‬
‭ attack rolls.‬
‭ ‬
‭Light‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - Beauty Domain‬
‭ As your action, you cause the prepared prayer strip‬
‭ in your hand to grow with bright light out to 5‬
‭ paces, and dim light out to 10 paces, while you‬
‭ maintain concentration. Any undead or infernal‬
‭ beings caught in the bright light suffer disadvantage‬
‭ to their attack rolls and saving throws.‬
‭ ‬
‭Mending‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - Beauty Domain‬
‭ You use your action to touch a damaged non-living‬
‭ object. While you maintain concentration, you may‬
‭ repair a single break or tear with each of your‬
‭ actions, such as a broken chain link, two halves of a‬
‭ broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. As‬
‭ long as each break or tear is no larger than 1 foot in‬
‭ any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of the‬
‭ former damage. This spell can physically repair a‬
‭ magic item or construct, but the spell can‬’t‭ restore‬
‭ magic to such an object.‬
‭ ‬
 ‭Sanctuary‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - Peace Domain‬
‭ You use your action or reaction to touch a creature,‬
‭ warding it against attack. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, any creature who targets the warded‬
‭ creature with an attack or a harmful spell mustfirst‬
‭ attempt to deny this effect. On a failed save, the‬
‭ creature must choose a new target or lose the attack‬
‭ or spell. This spell doesn‬’t‭ protect the warded‬
‭ creature from area effects, such as the explosion of a‬
‭fireball.‬
‭ If the warded creature makes an attack, casts a spell‬
‭ that affects an enemy, or deals damage to another‬
‭ creature, this spell ends.‬

‭ Shield of Faith‬
‭ First Circle Blessing - War Domain‬
‭ You use your reaction to cast this spell with a free‬
‭ hand when a creature within 10 paces would be‬
‭ damaged by an attack or damaging effect. A radiant‬
‭ aura of divine energy forms around the target,‬
‭ absorbing some of the damage and shielding them‬
‭ from harm, granting the target two faith dice worth‬
‭ of temporary hit points before damage is applied.‬

‭ Smite‬
‭ First Circle Curse - War Domain‬
‭ You may perform this miracle without an action as‬
‭ you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack. If‬
‭ you do, your weaponflares with white-hot intensity,‬
‭ and the attack deals two faith dice of radiant damage‬
‭ to the target, in addition to its normal weapon‬
‭ damage. Unho‬ly‭ creatures take the maximum‬
‭ possible amount of damage from both this miracle‬
‭ and the base weapon attack.‬
‭ If performed as a ritual, you specify a single‬
‭ distinguishable creature by name while blessing a‬
‭ melee weapon. Thefirst time the weapon hits that‬
‭ creature, its wielder adds the ritual’‬s‭ power as‬
‭ radiant damage to its normal weapon damage,‬
‭ which is doubled against an unholy creature.‬

‭ Speak With Dead‬
‭ First Circle Summons - Death Domain (ritual only)‬
‭ You call a ghost from the Shadow across the veil,‬
‭ allowing it to answer the questions you pose. The‬
‭ ritual fails if the ghost was the target of this ritual‬
‭ within the last lunar month. You must hold a‬
‭ portion of the ghost’‬s‭ corpse, or a possession that it‬
‭ valued in life, as you perform this ritual.‬
‭ During the ritual, you can ask the ghost a number‬
‭ of questions equal to the ritual’‬s‭ power . The ghost’‬s
‭ answers are usually brief, cryptic, and repetitive.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Augury‬
‭ Second Circle Divination - Truth Domain (ritual only)‬
‭ By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones,‬
‭ laying out ornate cards, or employing some other‬
‭ divining tool, you receive an omen from an‬
‭ otherworldly entity about the results of a specific‬
‭ course of action that you plan to take within the‬
‭ next 30 minutes. The referee chooses from the‬
‭ following possible omens:‬
-
‭ Weal, for good results‬
-
‭ Woe, for bad results‬
-
‭ Weal and woe, for both good and bad results‬
-
‭ Nothing, if results aren‬’t good or bad
‭ The spell doesn‬’t‭ take into account any possible‬
‭ circumstances that might change the outcome, such‬
‭ as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain‬
‭ of a companion. If you cast the spell again before‬
‭ the next sunrise or sunset, there is a cumulative 25‬
‭ percent chance for each casting after thefirst that‬
‭ you get a random reading. The referee makes this‬
‭ roll in secret.‬

‭ Curse Ability‬
‭ Second Circle Curse - Death Domain‬
‭ You use your action to make eye contact with a‬
‭ creature within 5 paces as you recite a brief prayer‬
‭ and choose an ability. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, you inflict a penalty to that‬
‭ creature‬’s‭ chosen ability modifier equal to half this‬
‭ curse‬’s‭ power.‬

‭ Divine Censure‬
‭ Second Circle Curse - Fate Domain‬
‭ You use your action to choose a creature that you‬
‭ can see within 25 paces. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, this curse interferes with the target’‬s
‭ connection with aetheric energies; while censured,‬
‭ a creature may not cast spells, perform miracles, or‬
‭ generate other magical effects of any kind.‬

‭ Divine Rebuke‬
‭ Second Circle Curse - Freedom Domain‬
‭ You use your reaction as another creature casts a‬
‭first-circle spell, miracle, or other supernatural‬
‭ effect. If they make a roll as part of their effect,‬
‭ make a Willpower roll vs. their roll result;‬
‭ otherwise, make a Willpower roll vs. their‬
‭ spellcasting DV . If you succeed, their effect fails.‬
‭ Higher Circles - If you perform this prayer as a‬
‭ second-circle miracle, you may target a‬
‭ second-circle effect, or your roll vs. afirst-circle‬
‭ effect has advantage. If you perform this prayer as a‬
‭ third circle miracle, you may target third-circle‬
‭ effects, or your roll vs. a second-circle effect has‬
‭ advantage, or you may automatically counter a‬
‭first-circle effect without a roll.‬

‭ Enfeeble‬
‭ Second Circle Curse - Death Domain‬
‭ As your action, you touch a creature and make a‬
‭ faith roll vs. its Fortitude DV . If you succeed, it has‬
‭ disadvantage to all attack rolls and saving throws,‬
‭ and inflicts half damage with all attacks, until it‬
‭ shrugs it off .‬

‭ Find Traps‬
‭ Second Circle Divination - Truth Domain (ritual only)‬
‭ You sense the presence of any trap within 20 paces‬
‭ that is within line of sight. A trap, for the purpose‬
‭ of this spell, includes anything that would inflict a‬
‭ sudden or unexpected effect you consider harmful‬
‭ or undesirable, which was specifically intended as‬
‭ such by its creator. Thus, the spell would sense an‬
‭ area affected by the alarm spell, a glyph of warding,‬
‭ or a mechanical pit trap, but it would not reveal a‬
‭ natural weakness in thefloor, an unstable ceiling, or‬
‭ a hidden sinkhole.‬
‭ ‬
 ‭Enhance Ability‬
‭ Second Circle Blessing - Various Domains‬
‭ You use your action to touch an adjacent creature as‬
‭ you recite a brief prayer and choose an ability.‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, you grant that‬
‭ creature a bonus to the chosen ability modifier‬
‭ equal to half this blessing’‬
s‭ power .‬

‭ Heal Serious Wounds‬
‭ Second Circle Blessing - Life Domain‬
‭ You use your reaction to touch a creature, then roll‬
‭ two dice and add your Charisma modifier, healing‬
‭ the target for that many hit points. If the target has‬
‭ suffered any wounds, you may choose for any die‬
‭ that rolls a‬
‘6’
‭ or higher to convert one wound into‬
‭ fatigue, instead of healing hit points.‬

‭ Holy Weapon‬
‭ Second Circle Blessing - War Domain‬
‭ You use your action to touch a weapon or barefist‬
‭ and call upon the favor of the Divine. While you‬
‭ maintain concentration, that weapon adds one die‬
‭ to all attack and damage rolls. This damage is the‬
‭ wielder‬’s‭ choice of radiant or force damage, and is‬
‭ maximized against‬ unholy‭ beings.‬

‭ Merriment‬
‭ Second Circle Curse - Beauty Domain‬
‭ You use your action to begin singing a song or‬
‭ chanting a prayer, calling those around you to join‬
‭ you in celebration.‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, each creature‬
‭ within 5 paces that can hear you must deny the‬
‭ effect at the beginning of its turn, or be forced to‬
‭ perform a comic dance‬
-
‭ shuffling, tapping its feet,‬
‭ and capering for the entire turn. While a target is‬
‭ affected by this curse it is slowed, has disadvantage‬
‭ on all Reflex saving throws, and other creatures‬
‭ have advantage on attack rolls against it until the‬
‭ beginning of its next turn.‬
‭ If you spend your action guiding the dance during‬
‭ your turn, you may move each affected creature half‬
‭ its speed during its next turn.‬

‭ Remove Curse‬
‭ Second Circle Blessing - Freedom Domain‬
‭ As your action, you touch an object or willing‬
‭ creature and offer a prayer of deliverance. The‬
‭ target may immediately make a saving throw with‬
‭ advantage to shrug off an ongoing effect, or break a‬
‭first-circle curse or other supernatural affliction‬
‭ affecting it, and add this miracle‬’s‭ power as a bonus‬
‭ to this roll. If used on an object, you make a faith‬
‭ roll as a saving throw for it.‬
‭ Higher Circles - If you perform this prayer at third‬
‭ circle, you may target a second-circle curse or‬
‭ affliction; if you instead target afirst-circle curse or‬
‭ affliction, the saving throw has advantage.‬

‭ Tongues‬
‭ Second Circle Blessing - Peace Domain‬
‭ You spend your action to touch a creature, granting‬
‭ it the ability to understand any spoken language it‬
‭ hears while you maintain concentration. Moreover,‬
‭ when the target speaks, any creature that knows at‬
‭ least one language and can hear the target‬
‭ understands what it says.‬

‭ Zone of Truth‬
‭ Second Circle Divination - Truth Domain‬
‭ You create a magical zone that guards against‬
‭ deception within 5 paces of you. While you‬
‭ maintain concentration, a creature that enters the‬
‭ spell’‬s‭ area or starts its turn there must make a‬
‭ Willpower saving throw. On a failed save, a creature‬
‭ can‬’t‭ speak a deliberate lie while in the radius, and‬
‭ any illusions on that creature become dispelled. You‬
‭ know whether each creature succeeds or fails on its‬
‭ saving throw.‬
‭ An affected creature is aware of the spell and can‬
‭ thus avoid answering questions to which it would‬
‭ normally respond with a lie. Such creatures can be‬
‭ evasive in its answers as long as it remains within‬
‭ the boundaries of the truth.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Aura of Life‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Life Domain‬
‭ Life-preserving energy radiates from you in an aura‬
‭ with a 5-pace radius. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, the aura moves with you, centered‬
‭ on you. Each non-hostile creature in the aura‬
‭ (including you) reduces all necrotic damage taken‬
‭ by half and all wounds received by half, and its hit‬
‭ point maximum can‬’t‭ be reduced. In addition, each‬
‭ non-hostile, living creature rolls one die and regains‬
‭ that many hit points when it starts its turn in the‬
‭ aura with 0 hit points.‬

‭ Banish the Unnatural‬
‭ Third Circle Curse - Fate Domain‬
‭ You use your action to make a faith test vs. the‬
‭ Willpower of being that is not native to the Material‬
‭ Plane. If you succeed, that being is banished to its‬
‭ native plane, and cannot return to the Material for‬
‭ one lunar month. If you fail, you cannot attempt to‬
‭ perform this miracle against this being again for‬
‭ one month.‬

‭ Beacon of Hope‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Peace Domain‬
‭ You use your action to inspire hope in all nearby‬
‭ allies. While you maintain concentration, you grant‬
‭ each creature within 5 paces advantage on all saving‬
‭ throws, and any dice rolled to determine hit points‬
‭ healed are considered to have rolled their maximum‬
‭ amount.‬

‭ Commune‬
‭ Third Circle Divination - Truth Domain‬
‭ You contact a Celestial servant of the Divine and‬
‭ ask one question that can be answered with a yes or‬
‭ no, or a single question concerning a specific goal,‬
‭ event, or activity to occur within 7 days. You receive‬
‭ a correct answer if the answer can be made known‬
‭ to you. Celestial servants aren‬'t‭ necessarily‬
‭ omniscient, so you might receive‬ "unclear"
‭ as an‬
‭ answer if a question pertains to information that‬
‭ depends on as-yet unmade decisions.‬

‭ Geas‬
‭ Third Circle Curse - Fate Domain‬
‭ You use your action to make a ranged attack vs. the‬
‭ Will DV of a creature that can see and hear you‬
‭ within 20 paces. If you succeed, you begin to place a‬
‭ divine command on the target, forcing them to‬
‭ carry out some service or refrain from some action‬
‭ or course of activity as you decide.‬
‭ You must maintain concentration for a number of‬
‭ full rounds equal to that creature‬’s‭ Charisma‬
‭ modifier‬ +‭ half its Willpower proficiency die‬
‭ maximum, forgoing your action each round to‬
‭ weave the spell. Once you begin the spell, the target‬
‭ can continue to hear you even if it moves away‬
‭ from you.‬
‭ You can issue any command you choose, short of an‬
‭ activity that would result in certain death. Should‬
‭ you issue a suicidal command, the curse does not‬
‭ take hold. A creature that can‬’t‭ understand you is‬
‭ unaffected by the spell.‬
‭ If youfinish describing the geas, the target becomes‬
‭ beguiled by you for a number of days equal to this‬
‭ curse‬’s‭ power . While the creature is beguiled, it‬
‭ takes three dice of psychic damage each time it acts‬
‭ in a manner directly counter to your instructions,‬
‭ but no more than once each hour. You can end the‬
‭ curse early by using an action to dismiss it.‬
‭ If cast as a ritual, your Geas may be worded so that‬
‭ only a certain action or circumstance may break it.‬
‭ If you do this, the Geas becomes permanent until‬
‭ those conditions are met‬
-
‭ not even a Remove Curse‬
‭ can break it. You cannot undo such a curse once it‬
‭ is done.‬
‭ ‬
 ‭Grace‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Beauty Domain‬
‭ You touch a target, imbuing them with supernatural‬
‭ poise and allure. While you maintain concentration,‬
‭ the affected creature has advantage on all beguile‬
‭ effects and Charisma-based skill rolls, and other‬
‭ creatures have disadvantage on all skill rolls‬
‭ (including saving throws) to oppose their beguile‬
‭ effects or Charisma-based skill rolls.‬
‭ Unlike most beguiling magics, the effects of Grace‬
‭ are extremely subtle‬
-
‭ the blessed creature does not‬
‭ innately seem to be under a magical effect, and its‬
‭ influence is not perceived as unnatural or forceful.‬
‭ Detect magic or a similar effect will still show its‬
‭ influence, however.‬

‭ Hallow‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Peace Domain‬
‭ As your action, you touch the ground with your‬
‭ bare hands or feet and infuse an area up to 5 paces‬
‭ around it with holy power. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration,‬ unholy‭ creatures can‬'t‭ enter the area,‬
‭ nor can such creatures beguile, frighten, or possess‬
‭ creatures within it. Any creature so affected by an‬
‭ undead or infernal creature is no longer affected‬
‭ upon entering the area.‬
‭ If cast as a ritual, the effects of this miracle do not‬
‭ require concentration, and remain until the next‬
‭ sunrise or sundown. If cast in the same place at‬
‭ each sunrise and sundown for a lunar month, the‬
‭ effects become permanent.‬

‭ Heal Critical Wounds‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Life Domain‬
‭ You use your reaction to touch a creature, then roll‬
‭ three dice and add your Charisma modifier, healing‬
‭ the target for that many hit points.‬
‭ If the target has suffered any wounds, you may‬
‭ choose for any die that rolls a‬
‘4’
‭ or higher to‬
‭ convert one wound into fatigue, instead of healing‬
‭ hit points.‬

‭ Restoration‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Freedom Domain‬
‭ You lay your hands on an injured, disabled, or‬
‭ cursed creature, praying for its afflictions to be‬
‭ lifted. Make a faith test vs. a CoF of 10 as you pray‬
‭ fervently; if you perform this miracle as a ritual, you‬
‭ may reduce the CoF by 1 for every 100 gp worth of‬
‭ sacrifices made.‬
‭ On a success, you may remove one curse, disease,‬
‭ or poison that is affecting the creature, or heal one‬
‭ debilitation or maiming effect even if it is from an‬
‭ old injury. On a critical success, you may remove a‬
‭ number of afflictions equal to this miracle‬’s‭ power .‬
‭ If you fail, the target may not be the subject of this‬
‭ prayer again for one lunar month.‬

‭ Revive‬
‭ Third Circle Blessing - Death Domain (ritual only)‬
‭ You perform this ritual over the corpse of a creature‬
‭ that died within the last hour, making a faith test vs‬
‭ a CoF of 10 as you try to call the creature‬’s‭ spirit‬
‭ back from the afterlife, reduced by 1 for every 100 gp‬
‭ worth of sacrifices made. If you succeed, the‬
‭ creature heals one wound, heals a number of hit‬
‭ points equal to this miracle‬’s‭ power , and returns to‬
‭ life. If you roll a‬ ‘1’,‭ the creature‬’s‭ corpse reanimates‬
‭ as an undead monster and immediately attacks the‬
‭ party.‬