 Beguile
‭ First Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ You use your action to attempt to beguile a creature‬
‭ within 5 paces that makes eye contact with you or‬
‭ can hear your voice. Make a magic roll vs. its‬
‭ Perception DV . On a failure, they know that you‬
‭ attempted to manipulate their mind, and their‬
‭ attitude likely degrades by one step. On a success,‬
‭ add your Charisma modifier to this spell’‬s‭ power‬
‭ and divide by 2; the target’‬s‭ attitude towards you‬
‭ improves by that many steps (up to Loyal) for as‬
‭ long as you maintain concentration.‬
‭ The spell immediately ends if you do anything‬
‭ harmful to the beguiled creature; if they suffer‬
‭ injury from any other source, they immediately‬
‭ attempt to snap out of it.‬

‭ Brew‬
‭ First Circle Spell‬
‭ During an encounter, you may use your action to‬
‭ accelerate an alchemical reaction, creating a highly‬
‭ volatile common elixir or potion immediately from‬
‭ a spell charge of the appropriate materia. The‬
‭ formula is short-lived, and must be used as part of‬
‭ the same action before it evaporates.‬
‭ You may also perform this as a ritual during any‬
‭ hour-long rest to brew a single Common alchemical‬
‭ formula, which will stay stable indefinitely.‬
‭ Se‬cond‭ Circle - if you cast this spell at second circle,‬
‭ you can instantly brew a volatile Uncommon elixir‬
‭ or potion; you may also perform this ritual during‬
‭ any hour-long rest to brew a single stable‬
‭ Uncommon alchemical formula, forgoing the‬
‭ replenishment of one mana during that rest.‬
‭ Third Circle - if you cast this spell at third circle,‬
‭ you can instantly brew a volatile Rare elixir or‬
‭ potion; you may also perform this ritual during any‬
‭ hour-long rest to brew a single stable Rare‬
‭ alchemical formula, forgoing the replenishment of‬
‭ two mana during that rest.‬

‭ Call Beasts‬
‭ First Circle Fey Ritual‬
‭ During this ritual, you send out a subtle psychic‬
‭ summons, intermingled with natural sounds and‬
‭ scents that will attract the attention of any nearby‬
‭ animals. You may specify a particular kind of‬
‭ animal as you perform this ritual. Roll your Animal‬
‭ Ken die and add your Wisdom modifier; a number‬
‭ of natural or fey beasts whose total hit dice equals‬
‭ the die result arrive within a number exploration‬
‭ rounds based on their distance and previous‬
‭ activities.‬
‭ If you are a level 2 Druid, you may perform this‬
‭ ritual in the hour before sunrise or sunset instead of‬
‭ preparing spell charges to call a specific species of‬
‭ animal whose hit dice are less than or equal to your‬
‭ Wild Shape limit, so that you can add its form to‬
‭ your wild shape library.‬
‭ When the animals arrive, you must run with the‬
‭ herd, pack, or individual of that species until the‬
‭ next sunset or sunrise. At that time, you have‬
‭ transformed into that animal, and add it to your list‬
‭ of Wild Shapes known.‬
‭ If you ever learn more Wild Shapes than your‬
‭ Animal Ken proficiency (minimum 1), you must‬
‭ choose a shape to forget as you learn the new shape.‬
‭ ‬
‭Cleansing Waters‬
‭ First Circle Water Spell‬
‭ As your action, you touch one living creature,‬
‭ drenching it with cooling water and drawing out‬
‭ any negative influences. Any ongoing damage or‬
‭ anyfirst--circle effect that could be ended with a‬
‭ saving throw is instantly ended. If the target is‬
‭ under the influence of a higher-circle effect, you‬
‭ may make a spell roll to attempt to end it.‬

‭ Detect Poison and Disease‬
‭ First Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You use your action to examine an adjacent living‬
‭ creature that you can see, then make a Medicine‬
‭ roll with advantage. On a success, you know‬
‭ whether the subject is suffering from any poisons,‬
‭ diseases, or other debilitating physical conditions,‬
‭ whether they are treatable, and what treatments are‬
‭ likely to be effective. You may also use this spell to‬
‭ examine an ingestible substance, to determine‬
‭ whether it is safe to eat or drink.‬
‭ Dedicate Object‬
‭ First Circle Elemental Ritual‬
‭ This ritual is used primarily by shapeshifters. By‬
 ‘marking’
‭ a single hand-held or worn object as your‬
‭ own, you leave a small trace of yourself within it,‬
‭ and a small trace of itself within you. Whenever you‬
‭ shapeshift (for example, by use of the Druid’‬s‭ Wild‬
‭ Shape ability), all marked items that you are‬
‭ currently wearing or holding shapeshift with you,‬
‭ merging into your animal form. When you‬
‭ transform back, these items will shift back with you.‬
‭ You can mark a total number of items equal to your‬
‭ spellcasting proficiency. When you are at this limit,‬
‭ you must un-dedicate one of your items of your‬
‭ choice whenever you dedicate a new one. You do‬
‭ not need to be in possession of the old item to‬
‭ un-dedicate it.‬
‭ You can only mark items that you crafted yourself,‬
‭ or that were gifted to you by another Druid that‬
‭ crafted it themselves. The item cannot contain any‬
‭ iron or steel anywhere in its construction. Having‬
‭ too many dedicated items can be dangerous‬
 –
‭ when‬
‭ a dedicated item is not in your possession, you can‬
‭ close your eyes as an action or reaction to sense‬
‭ where it is. If it is within 20 paces of you, you know‬
‭ where it is to within 1 pace; if it is further away, you‬
‭ know its direction and approximate distance (within‬
‭ 100 paces, within 1 mile, within 20 miles, further‬
‭ than 20 miles). While someone else is holding an‬
‭ item dedicated to you, they have advantage on all‬
‭ magic rolls and magic rolls that target you, and you‬
‭ have disadvantage on all saving throws vs any‬
‭ magics cast by them that target only you.‬
‭ ‬
 ‭Elemental Burst‬
‭ First Circle Elemental Spell‬
‭ As your action, you create a blast of elemental‬
‭ energy that pours out from your hands. Each‬
‭ creature in a 3-pace cone in front of you must resist‬
‭ or suffer two dice of elemental damage. If any‬
‭ damage dice roll a‬
‘6’
‭ or higher, that creature suffers‬
‭ an elemental effect until it shakes it off .‬
‭ Se‬cond‭ Circle - if you cast this spell from a second‬
‭ circle spell charge, the damage increases to 4 dice.‬
‭ Third Circle - if you cast this spell from a third‬
‭ circle spell charge, the damage increases to 6 dice.‬

‭ Elemental Mantle‬
‭ First Circle Elemental Spell‬
‭ You can use your reaction to cast this spell when‬
‭ you would be damaged by an elemental effect or‬
‭ attack from the same element as one of your‬
‭ prepared spell charges. You immediately halve all‬
‭ damage from that element for as long as you‬
‭ maintain concentration, and can ignore one die of‬
‭ elemental damage from each attack or damage‬
‭ source.‬
‭ If at any point you have more elemental energy dice‬
‭ than your spellcasting proficiency, or if you lose‬
‭ concentration, this spell immediately ends, and all‬
‭ remaining elemental energy dice are rolled as‬
‭ damage vs. all creatures within 2 paces of you‬
‭ (including yourself). Each such creature may dodge‬
‭ to attempt to halve this damage.‬
‭ Whenever you make a weapon attack, or a magic‬
‭ attack of the same type as this spell, you may‬
‭ consume one or more elemental energy dice to add‬
‭ them to the attack’‬s‭ damage roll. You may also‬
‭ consume one or more elemental energy dice‬
‭ whenever an adjacent creature hits you with a‬
‭ melee attack, to inflict those dice as damage to the‬
‭ attacker. Finally, you may consume three spell dice‬
‭ to replenish one expended spell charge of the same‬
‭ element.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Entangle‬
‭ First Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ Grasping weeds and vines sprout from the ground‬
‭ in a 3-pace radius circle starting from a point within‬
‭ 20 paces. While you hold your spell charge and‬
‭ maintain concentration, these plants turn the‬
‭ ground in the area into difficult terrain. Any‬
‭ creature in the area when you cast the spell must‬
‭ brace or be restrained by the entangling plants until‬
‭ the spell ends. A creature restrained by the plants‬
‭ can use its action to try to break free. On a success,‬
‭ it frees itself.‬
‭ While the spell lasts, you can use your action each‬
‭ turn to lash out with the vines at any creature‬
‭ within 2 paces of the conjured area. Make a grapple‬
‭ attack with the vines; on a hit, the target is pulled‬
‭ into the circle and restrained. When the spell ends,‬
‭ the conjured plants wilt away.‬
‭ Se‬cond‭ Circle - if you cast this spell from a second‬
‭ circle spell charge, you can cause the vines to grow‬
‭ long, sharp thorns that cause two dice of piercing‬
‭ damage each time a creature moves one pace within‬
‭ the area.‬

‭ Fey Glamour‬
‭ First Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ You use your action to create the illusion of an‬
‭ object, a creature, or some other visible‬
‭ phenomenon that is no larger than a 15-foot cube.‬
‭ The image appears at a spot within 10 paces and‬
‭ lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual; it‬
‭ isn‬’t‭ accompanied by sound, smell, or other sensory‬
‭ effects.‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, you can use‬
‭ your action to cause the image to move to any spot‬
‭ within range. As the image changes location, you‬
‭ can alter its appearance so that its movements‬
‭ appear natural for the image. Physical interaction‬
‭ with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because‬
‭ things can pass through it. A creature that uses its‬
‭ action to examine the image can attempt to‬
‭ disbelieve.‬

‭ Fog Cloud‬
‭ First Circle Air Spell‬
‭ You create a 5-pace-radius sphere of fog that billows‬
‭ out from a space within 5 paces. The fog spreads‬
‭ around corners, and its area is heavily obscured.‬
‭ This spell’‬s‭ power determines how many rounds it‬
‭ lasts; a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least‬
‭ 10 miles per hour) will disperse it early. If cast‬
‭ during combat, its duration is measured in 6-second‬
‭ combat rounds; if cast as a ritual, its duration is‬
‭ measured in 10-minute exploration rounds.‬

‭ Purify Food and Drink‬
‭ First Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You may use your action toflush up to 10 lbs x this‬
‭ spell’‬s‭ power of non-magical food or drink with vital‬
‭ energy as you touch it, cleansing it of any poisons‬
‭ or diseases.‬
‭ When performed as a ritual, you may instead infuse‬
‭ a smaller amount of food or drink harvested fresh‬
‭ from the local environment with a lingering healing‬
‭ energy. Each bite of food or swallow of drink so‬
‭ enchanted heals 1 hp, and provides enough‬
‭ nourishment to sustain a medium creature for one‬
‭ day. This second ritual form of the spell is often‬
‭ called the good‬ berry ritual‭.‬
‭ When you perform the goodberry ritual, this spell’‬s
‭ power determines the number of portions affected.‬
‭ Each portion will last until the next sunrise or‬
‭ sunset before becoming a normal, mundane bite of‬
‭ food or drink.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Shape Element‬
‭ First Circle Elemental Spell‬
‭ You may cast this spell as your action. For as long as‬
‭ you maintain concentration, you may use your‬
‭ action each round to shape one of the natural‬
‭ elemental forces and materials that surround you‬
 -
‭ earth and stone, water and ice, wood and vine, wind‬
‭ and fog, or light, shadow, andflame. You may‬
‭ manipulate roughly a 5 foot sphere of any one such‬
‭ element that is within 5 paces of you, and if such‬
‭ changes are made to a solid element such as earth,‬
‭ stone, wood or ice, they will hold their shape if‬
‭ sturdy enough to do so. You may extend the range‬
‭ of this effect to 20 paces if you touch a piece of the‬
‭ appropriate material that is connected by the same‬
‭ material to the area you wish to effect.‬
‭ You can use your action each turn to convert a 5‬
‭ foot patch of solid ground into difficult or smooth‬
‭ terrain, cause plants to part way or grow to block a‬
‭ path, increase or decrease the concealment of fog or‬
‭ smoke, melt ice into water or freeze water into ice,‬
‭ draw still air into a gust of wind strong enough to‬
‭ knock creatures over, repair or damage objects‬
‭ made from natural materials, and so on.‬
‭ You may also use your action to make melee attacks‬
‭ with the element as your action, originating from a‬
‭ space within range that contains the element you‬
‭ are shaping, each attack deals one die of elemental‬
‭ damage on a hit. You can also make charging,‬
‭ shoving or grabbing magic attacks appropriate to‬
‭ the controlled element. You have advantage on each‬
‭ of these attack rolls if the element in question is‬
‭ already surrounding the target before you declare‬
‭ your attack.‬
‭ Se‬cond‭ Circle - If you cast this spell at second circle,‬
‭ the size of the affected area increases to a 2-pace‬
‭ radius, and any attacks deal 2 dice of damage, and‬
‭ you can also make area attacks against all creatures‬
‭ within the spell’‬s radius.
‭ Third Circle - If you cast this spell at third circle,‬
‭ the size of the affected area increases to a 3-pace‬
‭ radius, any attacks deal 3 dice of damage.‬

‭ Shillelagh‬
‭ First Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You grow a large, solid branch from your spell‬
‭ charge‬’s‭ medicine back, then grip it tightly in your‬
‭ hand. While you maintain concentration, you may‬
‭ shape this branch into a quarterstaff, club, or thorny‬
‭ whip which deals your choice of bashing or piercing‬
‭ damage. You may make a spell roll rather than a‬
‭ weapon attack roll to attack with this weapon. If‬
‭ you lose concentration or drop the weapon, it‬
‭ withers away within seconds.‬

‭ Speak With Animals‬
‭ First Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ As your action, you make eye contact with a natural‬
‭ animal. While you maintain concentration on this‬
‭ spell, you may establish an empathic bond between‬
‭ yourself and that animal, allowing you to‬
‭ communicate wordlessly with it‬
 -
‭ exchanging‬
‭ simple concepts, emotions, and requests.‬
‭ Any such animal with an Intelligence modifier of‬
-3
‭ or lower can use its action to deny the connection if‬
‭ it senses ill intent from you; if it fails, it will see you‬
‭ and your allies as non-hostile until the spell ends or‬
‭ one of you harms the creature in any way. An‬
‭ animal with an Intelligence modifier of‬
-2‭ or higher‬
‭ can deny the connection without the need for a roll.‬

‭ Thunderwave‬
‭ First Circle Air Spell‬
‭ A blast of hurricane-force wind rushes out from you‬
‭ in a 5-pace cone. Each creature within the area‬
‭ must brace or suffer two dice of thunder damage,‬
‭ and be thrown backwards 2 paces and knocked‬
‭ prone.‬
‭ In addition, unsecured objects that are completely‬
‭ within the area of effect are automatically pushed 2‬
‭ paces away from you by the spell’‬s effect.
‭ ‬
 ‭Animal Messenger‬
‭ Second Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ You may spend your action to speak a short‬
‭ message to a tiny animal within 5 paces that you‬
‭ can see, while thinking of a location that you have‬
‭ visited and a description of a person that you expect‬
‭ to be in that location. The spell weaves its way into‬
‭ the animal, which remains enchanted for a number‬
‭ of days equal to the spell’‬s‭ power . The animal then‬
‭ immediately scurries orflies off at its top speed‬
‭ towards its destination.‬
‭ Upon arrival, the animal magically speaks the‬
‭ message you gave it to thefirst person it sees‬
‭ matching the description you gave, approximately‬
‭ duplicating the sound and tone of your voice. If the‬
‭ spell runs out before the animal canfind a suitable‬
‭ recipient, the message is lost, and the animal‬
‭ magicallyfinds its way home as the enchantment‬
‭ unweaves.‬

‭ Beast Bond‬
‭ Second Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ You use your action to beguile a natural animal or‬
‭ fey beast with fewer hit dice than your own,‬
‭ maintaining an empathic connection even after eye‬
‭ contact is broken. Creatures with an Intelligence‬
‭ modifier of‬
-3‭ or lower have disadvantage to deny‬
‭ this spell’‬s effect.
‭ The beguiled creature will attempt to obey any‬
‭ command you give it while you maintain‬
‭ concentration, and you may use your reaction each‬
‭ turn to‬ “borrow”
‭ the animal’‬s‭ senses for that turn,‬
‭ seeing through its eyes and hearing through its ears.‬
‭ This effect ends immediately if you or your allies‬
‭ harm the creature in any way.‬
‭ If you cast this spell on a creature as a ritual at‬
‭ every sunrise and sunset for a lunar month, and‬
‭ treat the creature well while it is beguiled, the‬
‭ creature becomes trained and permanently loyal to‬
‭ you if you continue to treat them well thereafter,‬
‭ adding the creature to your menagerie.‬

‭ Earthquake‬
‭ Second Circle Stone Spell‬
‭ You cause a short but intense earthquake in the‬
‭ ground in a 3-pace radius. While you maintain‬
‭ concentration, you may use your action each round‬
‭ to force each creature other than you in that area to‬
‭ dodge or suffer one die of bashing damage and be‬
‭ knocked prone. If the ground in this area contains‬
‭ loose earth, stone, or obstacles that can break loose‬
‭ and fall, the area becomes difficult terrain until‬
‭ cleared.‬

‭ Find Animal or Plant‬
‭ 2nd Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You use your action to describe or name a specific‬
‭ kind of beast or plant. Concentrating on the voice‬
‭ of nature in your surroundings, you learn the‬
‭ direction and distance to the closest creature of that‬
‭ kind within 5 miles, if any are present. While you‬
‭ maintain concentration, you know the target’‬s
‭ distance and location. If at any point you are more‬
‭ than 5 miles away from the target, the spell ends.‬

‭ Heat Metal‬
‭ Second Circle Flame Spell‬
‭ As your action, you choose one manufactured metal‬
‭ object‬
 –
‭ such as a metal weapon or a suit of heavy‬
‭ or medium metal armor‬
 –
‭ that you can see within 10‬
‭ paces. You cause the object to glow red-hot. Any‬
‭ creature in physical contact with the object‬
‭ immediately takes one die of fire damage.‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, you can use‬
‭ your action or reaction on each of your subsequent‬
‭ turns to cause this damage again. If a creature is‬
‭ holding or wearing the object and takes the damage‬
‭ from it, the creature must resist or drop the object if‬
‭ it can. If it doesn‬’t‭ or can‬’t‭ drop the object, it has‬
‭ disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws until‬
‭ the start of your next turn.‬
‭ Third Circle - if you cast this spell at third circle,‬
‭ you may target all metal objects within 5 paces of‬
‭ you.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Lifesense‬
‭ Second Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, you can see all‬
‭ living beings in your line of sight, whether invisible,‬
‭ concealed, or camouflaged. You effectively have‬
‭ Darkvision out as far as you can see, but it can only‬
‭ show you the shapes of living beings. For each‬
‭ living creature that you can see, you know its‬
‭ species, size, sex, and state of health.‬
‭ You can use your action to determine the detailed‬
‭ health of a single living being that you can see‬
‭ within 2 paces, immediately discerning if it is‬
‭ poisoned or diseased, whether it is at full hit points,‬
‭ above or below half its hit points, or at 0 hit points,‬
‭ and what physical conditions are affecting it.‬

‭ Misty Step‬
‭ Second Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ On your turn instead of moving, you conjure a‬
‭ silvery mist from Faerie, which quickly dissipates as‬
‭ you teleport up to 6 paces into an unoccupied space‬
‭ that you can see.‬
‭ If cast as a ritual at sunrise or sunset, Misty Step‬
‭ can instead open a portal directly between Faerie‬
‭ and the Material, which remains open until the next‬
‭ sunrise or sunset.‬
‭ Nature’s Ally‬
‭ Second Circle Elemental Spell‬
‭ As your action, you coax an elemental Numen in‬
‭ your medicine bag to grow in size and manifest‬
‭ before you as a fey elemental, awakened plant, or‬
‭ fey beast appropriate to its elemental nature. The‬
‭ shape chosen determines the creature‬’s‭ ability‬
‭ modifiers and hit points, and must have fewer hit‬
‭ dice than your own.‬
‭ The creature is under the referee‬’s‭ control, but is‬
‭ loyal to you and will obey your commands. You may‬
‭ use one Mana to re-roll this spell’‬s‭ power and heal it‬
‭ for that many hit points so long as you can see or‬
‭ hear it. Once its hit points drop to zero, the numen‬
‭ shrinks back to Tiny size andfinds its way back into‬
‭ your pouch.‬

‭ Traceless Passage‬
‭ Second Circle Elemental Spell‬
‭ By weaving a pattern that includes allfive elements,‬
‭ a veil of shadows and silence radiates from you,‬
‭ masking you and your companions from detection.‬
‭ While you maintain concentration, each creature‬
‭ you choose within 5 paces of you (including you)‬
‭ ignores difficult terrain, has a bonus die on all‬
‭ Stealth checks and saving throws equal to this‬
‭ spell’‬s‭ power , and can‬’t‭ be tracked except by‬
‭ magical means. A creature that receives this bonus‬
‭ leaves behind no tracks or other traces of its‬
‭ passage.‬

‭ Verdant Growth‬
‭ Second Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ This spell channels vitality into plants within a‬
‭ specific area. As your action, you choose a point‬
‭ within range. All normal plants in a 20-pace radius‬
‭ centered on that point become thick and‬
‭ overgrown. You can exclude one or more areas of‬
‭ any size within the spell’‬s area from being affected.
‭ A creature must spend its action and make an‬
‭ Athletics test to attempt to move forward one pace‬
‭ through the area, or must attempt to hack it down‬
‭ by attacking it with slashing weapons. Each 5-foot‬
‭ patch of the area has structural hit points equal to‬
‭ the spell’‬s‭ power , and halves all damage inflicted on‬
‭ it that isn‬’t slashing or fire damage.
‭ When cast as a ritual, you may alternatively use this‬
‭ spell to channel vitality into plants within a specific‬
‭ area with long-term benefits, enriching the land. All‬
‭ plants in a half-mile radius centered on you become‬
‭ enriched for one year, multiplying their harvest by‬
‭ this spell’‬s‭ power.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Awaken‬
‭ Third Circle Wood Ritual‬
‭ This ritual allows a Druid to imbue a natural animal‬
‭ or plant with intelligence and free will.‬
‭ When you successfully awaken a plant or beast, the‬
‭ newly-awakened creature is beguiled by you until‬
‭ the next sunrise or sunset, or until you and your‬
‭ companions do anything harmful to it. When the‬
‭ beguiled condition ends, the awakened creature‬
‭ chooses whether to remain friendly to you, based‬
‭ on how you treated it while it was beguiled.‬

 \n‭A‬waken ‭Beast‬
‭ - You touch a natural animal with 3‬
‭ or fewer hit dice and a‬
-4‭ or lower Intelligence‬
‭ modifier. The target gains a bonus to its Intelligence‬
‭ modifier equal to this spell’‬
s‭ power , to a minimum‬
‭ Intelligence modifier of‬
-3‭ and maximum of‬
+0.‭ The‬
‭ creature also gains the ability to speak one language‬
‭ that you know.‬
 \n‭A‬waken ‭Plan‬t
‭ - You can also use this ritual to‬
‭ Awaken a plant, granting it motion and‬
‭ intelligence. You touch a Huge or smaller natural‬
‭ plant, ganting it an Intelligence score equal to the‬
‭ spell’‬s‭ power . Repeat this process for each ability‬
‭ score, re-rolling the spell’‬s‭ power for each ability.‬
‭ The awakened plant also gains the ability to speak‬
‭ one language that you know.‬
‭ The plant gains the ability to move its limbs, roots,‬
‭ vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains senses‬
‭ similar to a human‬’s.‭ Your referee chooses statistics‬
‭ and ability modifiers appropriate for the awakened‬
‭ plant, based on its species and size.‬

‭ Call Storm‬
‭ Third Circle Air or Water Spell‬
‭ You may cast this spell as your action while‬
‭ outdoors in a heavy storm. For as long as you‬
‭ maintain concentration, you may use your action‬
‭ each round to influence the storm for 25 paces‬
‭ around you. You must be outdoors to cast this spell.‬
‭ Moving to a place where you don‬’t‭ have a clear path‬
‭ to the sky ends the spell early.‬
‭ Winds can be used to push affected creatures up to 3‬
‭ paces in a direction of your choice; one full action‬
‭ may be spent to push any creatures within a circle‬
‭ 10 paces wide or a cone 40 paces deep. Each creature‬
‭ within the affected area must brace with advantage‬
‭ or be knocked prone; on a critical success, that‬
‭ creature also manages to avoid being moved.‬
‭ Lightning called from the clouds inflicts three dice‬
‭ of damage to each creature within one pace of the‬
‭ strike point that fails to dodge the strike; creatures‬
‭ in metal armor have disadvantage to their dodge‬
‭ saving throw. Strikes against trees orflammable‬
‭ objects may ignite them at the referee‬’s discretion.
‭ Hail and sleet strikes a much wider area, dealing‬
‭ one die of cold damage to each creature within the‬
‭ entire 25-pace area. Each creature affected can resist‬
‭ to halve the damage; well-insulated clothing can‬
‭ provide advantage to this saving throw at the‬
‭ referee‬’s discretion.
‭ If you cast this spell as a ritual, you may conjure a‬
‭ storm from a clear sky over the course of an hour,‬
‭ rolling the spell’‬s‭ power to determine the number of‬
‭ hours that the storm will last. You may alternatively‬
‭ use this ritual to calm a storm in progress,‬
‭ dissipating it into clear skies. If two druids each‬
‭ perform this ritual at cross-purposes within a mile‬
‭ of each other, a Nature test determines which ritual‬
‭ succeeds.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Druid Grove‬
‭ Third Circle Fey Ritual‬
‭ During this ritual, you sanctify a circular area up to‬
‭ 30 paces in radius, bringing Faerie and the Material‬
‭ closer together within it. Some kind of border‬
‭ marker, usually a ring of mushrooms or a wild‬
‭ thorny hedge, will spring out of the ground around‬
‭ the borders as you complete the ritual.‬
‭ Within the grove, all spellcasting rolls for druidic‬
‭ and fey magic have advantage, and all spellcasting‬
‭ rolls for other forms of magic have disadvantage.‬
‭ Any creature enchanted within the grove by the‬
‭ Awaken Beast or Awaken Plant rituals may be‬
‭ tasked with defending the grove indefinitely, rather‬
‭ than serving you directly. Other rituals, such as Call‬
‭ Storm, Entangle, Heat Metal, Leyline Travel,‬
‭ Mirage, Nature‬’s‭ Wrath, Summon Elemental, or‬
‭ Verdant Growth, may be woven into the grove‬’s
‭ defenses and features as well.‬
‭ If you cast this ritual in the same place each sunrise‬
‭ and sunset for one lunar month, and leave at least‬
‭ one numen of each elemental aspect within the area‬
‭ to tend to the grove, the effects of this ritual become‬
‭ permanent until dispelled, along with any other‬
‭ defensive rituals woven into it. Druids who maintain‬
‭ a permanent Druid Grove usually continue to‬
‭ perform the necessary rituals at each sunrise and‬
‭ sunset, weaving their magic deeper and deeper into‬
‭ the bones of the earth. Each additional consecutive‬
‭ lunar month that the rituals continue to be‬
‭ performed each sunrise and sunset, the difficulty to‬
‭ dispel the grove‬’s‭ magics increase by 1; missing a‬
‭ day reduces the difficulty to dispel by 1 each month‬
‭ until it is reduced to a minimum CoF of 1.‬

‭ Leyline Travel‬
‭ Third Circle Fey Spell‬
‭ As an action, you touch a surface made of living‬
‭ plant matter‬
 -
‭ such as a tree or vine-covered wall‬
 -
‭ and a portal opens through the veil into Faerie.‬
‭ When you step through, an identical portal appears‬
‭ on another such surface that you can see within 60‬
‭ paces, which you instantly step out of back into the‬
‭ Material world. You may choose to keep the portal‬
‭ open while you maintain concentration, allowing‬
‭ others to follow you.‬
‭ If cast as a ritual, you may attempt to link to any‬
‭ large tree or natural living archway that you have‬
‭ seen, even at great distance. Make a Nature test‬
‭ with a CoF equal to the number of leagues of‬
‭ distance between the two portals; on a failure, you‬
‭ step out of a portal somewhere in between,‬
‭ determined randomly by the referee.‬

‭ Meld With Earth‬
‭ Third Circle Stone Spell‬
‭ You step into a natural stone or earthen object or‬
‭ surface large enough to fully contain your body,‬
‭ melding yourself and all dedicated equipment with‬
‭ the earth for as long as you maintain concentration.‬
‭ Using your movement, you step into the earth at a‬
‭ point you can touch. Nothing of your presence‬
‭ remains visible or otherwise detectable by‬
‭ non-magical senses.‬
‭ While merged with the earth, you can‬’t‭ see what‬
‭ occurs outside it, and any Perception checks you‬
‭ make to hear sounds outside it are made with‬
‭ disadvantage. You remain aware of the passage of‬
‭ time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in‬
‭ the earth. You can use your movement to leave the‬
‭ earth where you entered it, which ends the spell.‬
‭ You otherwise can‬’t move.
‭ Minor physical damage to the earth doesn‬’t‭ harm‬
‭ you, but its destruction or a change in its shape or‬
‭ substance (to the extent that it is no longer natural‬
‭ earth or you no longerfit within it) expels you and‬
‭ deals 3d6 bashing damage to you. If expelled, you‬
‭ fall prone in an unoccupied space closest to where‬
‭ you first entered.‬
‭ ‬
‭ Mirage‬
‭ Third Circle Fey Ritual‬
‭ You cast this ritual to make the terrain around you‬
‭ look, sound, and smell like some other sort of‬
‭ natural terrain. The ritual’‬s‭ effectflows out from‬
‭ you in a sphere that grows one pace per minute in‬
‭ radius to a maximum of 60 paces in every direction,‬
‭ transforming your surroundings as the wave of‬
‭ magic passes over them. Openfields can be made to‬
‭ resemble difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can‬
‭ be made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice‬
‭ like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide‬
‭ and smooth valley. Manufactured structures,‬
‭ equipment, and creatures within the area aren‬’t
‭ changed in appearance.‬
‭ The tactile characteristics of the terrain are‬
‭ unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely‬
‭ to see through the illusion. If the difference isn‬’t
‭ obvious by touch, a creature carefully examining‬
‭ the illusion can attempt to disbelieve it.‬

‭ Nature’s Wrath‬
‭ Third Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You call out to the spirits of nature to rouse them‬
‭ against your enemies. The spirits cause trees, roots,‬
‭ vines, and grasses within 5 paces of you to become‬
‭ animated while you maintain concentration and‬
‭ remain within the area.‬
‭ Grasses and Undergro‬wth‭ - Any area of ground in‬
‭ the cube that is covered by grass or undergrowth is‬
‭ difficult terrain for your enemies.‬
‭ ‬\n‭Trees - At the start of each of your turns, each of‬
‭ your enemies within 10 feet of any tree in the area‬
‭ must dodge or take four dice of slashing damage‬
‭ from whipping branches.‬
‭ ‬\n‭Roo‬ts‭ and Vines - At the end of each of your turns,‬
‭ one creature of your choice that is on the ground in‬
‭ the cube must brace or become restrained or‬
‭ knocked prone (your choice) until the spell ends. A‬
‭ restrained creature can use an action to attempt to‬
‭ break free.‬

‭ Polymorph‬
‭ Third Circle Wood Spell‬
‭ You use your action to touch another creature,‬
‭ transforming them instantly into a natural animal‬
‭ or fey beast with 3 or fewer hit dice. The creature‬
‭ remains transformed while you maintain‬
‭ concentration, replacing their racial features and‬
‭ ability modifiers with those of the species you have‬
‭ chosen. This includes mental ability modifiers; a‬
‭ transformed creature with an Intelligence modifier‬
‭ of -4 or lower is no longer considered intelligent.‬
‭ The creature is limited in the actions it can perform‬
‭ by the nature of its new form, and it can‬’t‭ speak,‬
‭ cast spells, or take any other action that requires‬
‭ hands or speech if the new form is incapable of‬
‭ them.‬
‭ Clothing and other equipment worn by the‬
‭ transformed creature is not affected unless that‬
‭ creature previously performed the dedicate object‬
‭ ritual on it; the transformation might damage such‬
‭ equipment if the creature‬’s‭ new size is significantly‬
‭ larger than its old.‬

‭ Primal Oath‬
‭ Third Circle Fey Ritual‬
‭ Like the Divine, the magic of Faerie can also‬
‭ sanctify oaths. Oaths sworn before faerie need not‬
‭ be made in earnest with a pure heart, but faerie is‬
 ‭fickle and treacherous, and will bind the swearer to‬
‭ the letter of their words rather than the spirit.‬
‭ Blessings sworn before faerie tend to be easier to‬
‭ break accidentally, and the curses thus imparted‬
‭ tend to be far more vicious and ironic.‬
‭ The Fair Folk themselves can bind a primal oath as‬
‭ an action, without the need of an elaborate ritual.‬
‭ All that is needed is that someone make a promise‬
‭ or a boast in their presence, and any witnessing Fair‬
‭ Folk is likely to bind the speaker to their “‬word”.
‭ Clerics tend to be adamant in their terminology,‬
‭ distinguishing between divinely sworn oaths (which‬
‭ are‬ “sanctified”)‭ and primal oaths (which are‬
“bound”).‭ Nevertheless, the blessings available are‬
‭ identical, manifesting as Divine blessing effects‬
‭ appropriate to the oath’s wording.‬
